-- Name: James Silcott
-- Homework: ISTA420-04
-- Date: July 21, 2020

Chapter 4:
1. In your own words, what is a subquery?
query within another SQL query

*subquerys appear in a: 
select(specify the columns) 

and 

where clause(row fiter)


2. In your own words, what is a self contained subquery?
completely independent and do not require any input from outer query,
http://dinesql.blogspot.com/2014/02/types-of-sql-server-sub-queries-self.html
*stand alone query 


3. In your own words, what is a correlated subquery?
a query that requires an input from its outer query.
http://dinesql.blogspot.com/2014/02/types-of-sql-server-sub-queries-self.html
*


4. Give an example of a subquery that returns a single value. When would you use this kind of subquery?
A scalar subquery is a subquery that returns a single value. Such a subquery can appear anywhere in
the outer query where a single-valued expression can appear (such as WHERE or SELECT).



5. Give an example of a subquery that returns multiple values. When would you use this kind of subquery?
A multivalued subquery is a subquery that returns multiple values as a single column. Some predicates,
such as the IN predicate, operate on a multivalued subquery.

suppose you need to write a query that
returns orders placed by customers from the United States.

6. Give an example of a subquery that returns table values. When would you use this kind of subquery?
Correlated subqueries are subqueries that refer to attributes from the tables that appear in the outer query.
This means the subquery is dependent on the outer query and cannot be invoked independently



7. What does the exists predicate do? Give an example.
The EXISTS operator is used to test for the existence of any record in a subquery.
The EXISTS operator returns true if the subquery returns one or more records.
The following SQL statement returns TRUE and lists the suppliers with a product price less than 20:
SELECT SupplierName
FROM Suppliers
WHERE EXISTS (SELECT ProductName FROM Products WHERE Products.SupplierID = Suppliers.supplierID AND Price < 20);

8. What happens if we use the not operator before a predicate? Give an example.
FALSE,UNKNOWN


9. When you use exists or not exists with respect to a row in a database, does it return two or three values? 
EXISTS uses two-valued predicate logic. EXISTS always returns TRUE or FALSE
and never UNKNOWN.
Explain your answer.
When the subquery stumbles into a NULL in O.custid, the expression evalu-
ates to UNKNOWN and the row is filtered out. As far as the EXISTS predicate is concerned, the NULL
cases are eliminated naturally, as though they weren’t there. So EXISTS ends up handling only known
customer IDs. Therefore, it’s safer to use NOT EXISTS than NOT IN.



10. How would you use a subquery to calculate aggregates? For example, you want to calculate yearly
sales of a product, and you also want to keep a running sum of total sales. 


SELECT orderyear, qty,
(SELECT SUM(O2.qty)
FROM Sales.OrderTotalsByYear AS O2
WHERE O2.orderyear <= O1.orderyear) AS runqty
FROM Sales.OrderTotalsByYear AS O1
ORDER BY orderyear;

Explain how you would use a subquery to do this.




