-- Name: James Silcott
-- Homework: ISTA420-05
-- Date: July 22, 2020

Chapter 5:
1. What is a table expression? Can you give a technical denition of a table expression?
table expression is a named query expression that represents a valid relational table. You can use
table expressions in data-manipulation statements much like you use other tables.



2. In what SQL clause are derived tables (table valued subqueries) located?
FROM



3. Why can you refer to column aliases in an outer query that you dened in an inner table valued
subquery?
One of the benefits of using table expressions is that, in any clause of the outer query, you can refer to
column aliases that were assigned in the SELECT clause of the inner query. This behavior helps you get
around the fact that you can’t refer to column aliases assigned in the SELECT clause in query clauses
that are logically processed prior to the SELECT clause (for example, WHERE or GROUP BY).




4. What SQL key word denes a common table expression?
WITH




5. When using common table expressions, can a subsequent derived table use a table alias declared in a
preceding table expression?
Yes, From clause excutes first




6. Can a main query refer to a previously dened common table expression by multiple aliases?
Yes 




7. In SQL, is a view a durable object?
Yes, Views and in-line table-valued functions are reuseable because of the definitions are stored as permanent objects in the database




8. In a view, what does WITH CHECK OPTION do? Why is this important?
In the header of the view, under the WITH clause, you can specify attributes such as
ENCRYPTION and SCHEMABINDING, and at the end of the query you can specify WITH CHECK OPTION.



9. In a view, what does SCHEMABINDING do? Why is this important?
The SCHEMABINDING option is available to views and UDFs; it binds the schema of referenced objects
and columns to the schema of the referencing object. It indicates that referenced objects cannot be
dropped and that referenced columns cannot be dropped or altered.



10. What is a table valued function?
Derived tables and CTEs have a single-statement scope, which means they are not reusable. Views
and inline table-valued functions (inline TVFs) are two types of table expressions whose definitions are
stored as permanent objects in the database, making them reusable.



11. What does the APPLY operator do?
The APPLY operator is a powerful table operator. Like all table operators, APPLY is used in the FROM
clause of a query. There are two supported types of APPLY: CROSS APPLY and OUTER APPLY. Like the
JOIN table operator, APPLY performs its work in logical-query phases. CROSS APPLY implements only
one logical-query processing phase, whereas OUTER APPLY implements two.



12. What are the two forms of the APPLY operator? Give an example of each.