-- Name: James Silcott
-- Homework: TSQL 02B
-- Date: July 8, 2020

1. 
Data types
SQL Server supports two kinds of character data types: regular and Unicode. Regular data types include
CHAR and VARCHAR, and Unicode data types include NCHAR and NVARCHAR. Regular characters use
1 byte of storage for each character, whereas Unicode data requires 2 bytes per character, and in cases
in which a surrogate pair is needed, 4 bytes are required.


2.
Collation is a property of character data that encapsulates several aspects: language support, sort
order, case sensitivity, accent sensitivity, and more.
In an on-premises SQL Server implementation, collation can be defined at four different levels: 
instance, database, column, and expression

3.
The RTRIM and LTRIM functions
The RTRIM and LTRIM functions return the input string with leading or trailing spaces removed.

4.
select * from college where name like "institute";
SELECT college or universtiy
FROM college
WHERE Institue

5.
SELECT CHARINDEX(' ','Barack Hussein Obama');

6.
SELECT LEFT([NAME], ISNULL(NULLIF(CHARINDEX(' ',[NAME]), 0), LEN([NAME]))) AS First_Name

7.
A statement having multiple operators is evaluated based on the priority of operators. 
If all the operators in SQL statement have equal precedence, then the operators are evaluated from left to right. 
Operators with different precedence are evaluated from highest to lowest.
NOT
AND
OR

8.
Parantheses
Multiplication, Division
SUbtraction, Addition

+,-,*,/


9.
The simple CASE form has a single test value or expression right after the CASE keyword that is
compared with a list of possible values in the WHEN clauses. The searched CASE form is more flexible in
the sense you can specify predicates in the WHEN clauses rather than being restricted to using equality
comparisons.

10.
select substr(contactName, instr(contactName, " ")+1) || ", " || substr(contactName, 1, instr(contactName, " ")-2) from customers limit 5;

11.
select substr(contactName, instr(contactName, " ")+1) || ", " || substr(contactName, 1, instr(contactName, " ")) from customers limit 5;

Predicate is expression that returns true or false
Expression is something htat the computer evaluates


